Monday Memo
From Supt. Dr. Joylynn Pruitt-Adams
May 17, 2021
The Asian American Experience: A Virtual Community Education Event
This Thursday May 20, from 7:00 - 8:30 p.m., Districts 90, 97, and 200 and the Oak Park Public Library will
co-host a virtual community event highlighting the Asian American experience. Community member Mark
Chiang will moderate a panel featuring Asian-American Oak Park and River Forest community members. All
are invited and encouraged to attend! Click here to visit the event page, where the link to participate will be
posted.
Plans for Fall 2021
Illinois State Superintendent of Education Carmen Ayala is recommending that the State Board of Education
vote to approve the following declaration this week: “Beginning with the 2021-22 school year, all schools must
resume fully in-person learning for all student attendance days, provided that ... remote instruction be made
available for students who are not eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine and are under a quarantine order by a local
public health department or the Illinois Department of Public Health.”
Superintendents previously have been told masking and social distancing could still be required with a full
reopening and have requested clarity from the Illinois State Board of Education (ISBE) regarding any such
restrictions. In the meantime, the Reimagine Education OPRF steering committee is moving forward on
creating a plan for reopening school this fall. The plan will be presented to the Board at the June 10 Committee
of the Whole.
Graduation update
In light of the newest COVID-19 mitigation guidelines, we have received several requests to adjust graduation
from two ceremonies to one ceremony. Unfortunately, based on the latest guidelines, this is not possible. While
the overall capacity for outdoor venues has increased from 25% to 60%, six-foot social distancing is still required
between family groups. This distancing requirement essentially negates the bump in overall capacity, and as a
result, we are moving ahead with our stated plans of holding two graduation ceremonies.
A reminder to seniors: Please be extra cautious about following public health safety protocols, particularly if you
are not vaccinated. We are obligated to follow Oak Park Department of Public Health requirements regarding
the length of quarantine for COVID cases or close contact with someone who is positive—and currently, that is
14 days. Do everything you possibly can to stay healthy and avoid exposure before Commencement on May 29.
Pfizer vaccination clinic for anyone 12 and older
This Saturday, May 22, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., the Oak Park Public Health Department is partnering with
Walgreens to host a community vaccination clinic in the OPRF Fieldhouse. The event is open to anyone age 12
or older. Click here to schedule your appointment via the Walgreens portal. The second dose clinic will be
administered at the same location and same time on Sat., June 12. For more information on local vaccination
efforts visit www.oak-park.us/vaccine.
Athletic event limits still in place
While the number of guests that athletes may bring to competitions has been expanded and communicated to
Athletics families, walk-in members of the public still are not permitted to attend.
Seniors textbook return
Seniors, please be sure to return your textbooks on Friday, May 21, in the North Cafeteria, between 7:30 a.m.
and 4:30 p.m. Books that are not returned become a financial obligation on your Skyward account; all
obligations must be paid prior to graduation.
Location of OPRF drop box moving two doors north
Due to summer construction, the saliva sample drop-box at the main entrance is moving two doors north on
Scoville to Door 6, where a temporary welcome center will be located until mid-August. This primarily affects
just students participating in athletics and driver education.
A great Great America outing!
On Saturday, May 8, nearly 600 seniors traveled to Great America on 21 buses to celebrate the end of their time
at OPRF. Feedback was extremely positive. Students said that they liked being able to pick their bus so that they
could ride with friends as well as socialize with a different group of people than the few with whom they walked
around the park. They also enjoyed sharing a meal together for lunch--and were surprised that the food was
really good! Many thanks to the 45 teachers and staff who helped chaperone the event, making it possible for the
Class of 2021 to be together.
In addition, this past Saturday, faculty and staff fanned out across the two villages to deliver yard signs for every
senior.
Saliva testing a must for commencement
All students participating in graduation will needto submit a saliva test. Students who do not submit
a saliva test will not be allowed to attend the ceremony.
● Last names M-Z: Submit before 1 p.m. on Wednesday, May 19, or Thursday, May 20.
● Last names A-L: Submit before 1 p.m. on Monday, May 24, or Tuesday, May 25.
Any student who cannot make the deadlines above has one absolutely final deadline to drop off a sample: By
Thursday, May 27, at 1 p.m.
For students who have not previously submitted a saliva sample, you will need to pick up a saliva test kit
(including instructions) Monday-Friday from 7:30 a.m. - 3:30 p.m. in the Student Center. NOTE: Prior to
picking up a kit, the first parent/guardian in each student’s Skyward account will need to consent to saliva
testing. Click here for instructions on how to consent to testing.
For the complete graduation packet, click here.
